foreign
thanks for joining us for the last
session in this room there will be
another one after with Jason
um so today we're going to talk for the
next 45 minutes and uh you are going to
contribute we're likely to take some
question at the end so think about what
is a burning topic you want our
panelists to cover
and um the goal tonight to the SRA is to
cover a lot of mistakes that have been
done on the series a round but we would
like to know a little bit in the
audience if you can raise your hand on
if you're a Founder so who is the
founder of a startup in the audience
okay who have raised at least one round
only one round of funding with VCS in
around we're not counting Angel round
whoever is one
okay whoever is two rounds with VCS well
done okay whoever is three rounds with
VCS
okay we have only one who survive to
that point okay got it no I think we
wanted to know who is in audience to get
a sense and it seems like a lot of you
uh I've raised one or two rounds so it
seems that the topic is quite accurate
for for today so I will start with you
Jenny
um I think we a lot of people may know
about pmf product Market fits but you
mentioned also the the another aspect
the founder product investor fit
so what do you mean about that and why
you think Founders sometimes have
challenged on this yeah hi everyone it's
good to be here and
and the panelists have committed to
making this more interactive and more
fun it shouldn't just be us discussing
this so so you know I think I think we
should all loosen up and be
entrepreneurial so I I think that um you
know I always feel that Su has managed
has met his Founders as you're building
your team you talk a lot about having
the right complementary skill sets right
from the first day subsequently going
into a team that you can skill right so
organization planning within you know
the startup is very important but I I do
feel that you know sometimes Founders
only look at Capital as capital and that
whoever gives you the check I know
sometimes you don't have a choice you do
need the check you take the check but
when you do have to check
um ability to choose the checks then I I
feel that um and I was quite specific
founder product and investor fit becomes
very important right even from day one
having investors who knows the team who
knows the sector or the needs or
problems that they are trying to resolve
and getting that concurrence on day one
becomes very important and that actually
goes into many different things for
example is this does this investor know
what you're trying to do can the
investor help you can have they done it
before and if they've done it for the
last 20 years they are most likely able
to help you navigate today's environment
is not you know it's very you know
dissimilar to the last or very different
from the last two years where everything
was up to the right and it was growth at
all costs and today the environment is
extremely extremely complex from
geopolitics to inflation
um you know to to like you know really
different
um like you know two years ago we were
talking about you know High expense
hiring right and then now we're talking
about the great hate count reduction
right things just change and so having
the right investor who knows what it
takes to build and have done similar
Things become too important so doing
that due diligence becomes very
important and you should feel very
empowered to ask those questions even
from day one of your engagement and
meeting if you don't get the check at
least get some advice
so since we have three investors on the
funds level on the stage maybe we can
help those funders and each of you can
maybe share on what are you very
knowledgeable and what are your check
size and Stage you're doing
perfect question
so maybe we can follow up with Eugenie
so what is your check size stage and
like SAS do you do Dev tools or yeah
like what kind of vertical do you like
so ggv we are Global Venture Capital
firm for those of you who have attended
similar events in the US we have
Partners who covers software Services
quite a bit so as a global VC firm we
are multi-stage we have Discovery funds
which allows us to come here at the seat
series a B level we can also follow up
with 30 50 million check sizes companies
are set up to scale we have different
products so multi-stage Venture Capital
we are Global which means that our key
markets are U.S China and now
increasingly Emerging Markets like
southeast Asia Latin America India is
growing and becoming our third bucket or
third lake so to speak and within the
partners we have a partnership we have
six Partners uh if you know us each of
our partners are extremely different and
we are known for our specific sector
area for myself
um I prior to becoming a VC
um 23 years ago I used to upgrade
fighter jets so my electronic warfare
system engineer I used to work on Jets I
used to work on Cutting Edge technology
I used to design drones and so I do
build large-scale simulation programs so
if you're doing gaming metaverse if
you're looking at smart devices
autonomous driving flying planes drones
I'm probably the right person because I
can tell you exactly what's needed but I
have Partners So within ggb we are we
are technology investors we have
different verticals so similarly we look
at SAS we I have Partners who have spent
25 years tracking and investing in
infrastructure infrastructure software
increasingly the open source movement
and then you know in terms of the
different development tools as well as
Enterprise software so really across the
board we have our Enterprise practice we
have a smart Tech practice this and of
course social internet which is a lot
more in this region about fintech you
know
metaverse education Tech and the Legacy
come and tell us more about vertex and
where is a good fit for a thunder sure
so
so okay
installation of fun so the team that
that is in Southeast Asia and India as a
group we are one of six months we do
primarily series a Investments and uh
Tech enable at least for the fun in
Southeast Asia so for those who are
coming across from China from Israel
from us you probably see similar logos
but that's because it's run by separate
GPS So within our Fund in Southeast Asia
India there's about 22 of us we have got
uh really young people and we've got
those who are less young right so
amongst us you've got people who have
seen the industry uh uh run through a
couple of times where we'll come
through.com Asia financial crisis and
what have you the works so whatever that
had happened in 2000 although it's fresh
in our mind it wasn't very new to you
know in 2020 it wasn't very new because
we had seen it in 2000 right and and
after that the SARS which is what we are
seeing the reaction and so on
um in terms of discipline we are Tech
enabled we have got six areas that we
look at of which is business and sauce
will be one of them we have people who
are tracking this area and we believe
that science is not just confined to any
one specific vertical but it can be
quite horizontal so so yeah um and be
honest we've got grow fund that can
invest behind us
here is a tell us more about Square pay
started in Australia and we have teams
in Australia Israel and and Singapore
covering southeast Asia
it's been 10 years since we started we
are six Partners covering these regions
we do a lot of I'm generalists but we do
a lot of SAS and I think it's it's we
have the advantage of coming from
Australia and having seen the game
played in Australia and Israel and now I
think like similarly getting played in
this region we have a few you know
things or
um how shall I say it uh the the things
that that people have gone through as
they try to either set up teams locally
but try to sell to the US or like start
from a small Market but they have to go
immediately International so it's really
really nice to see how it is played here
and and having seen that game before uh
be able to be part of part of this
journey
um we can come in and see it we we are
series a series B we can follow we also
have an opportunities fund uh it's been
it's been fun in the last few years
especially like to double down on SAS uh
in in Southeast Asia especially and
Global from day one uh companies doing
Dev tools or many other SAS place out of
here
great so on on P RZ and and Carmen you
you also mentioned that a lot of startup
at the series stage they may don't know
enough their customers so what are your
recommendations around that what funders
should know how they should articulate
their their view on their customers
right so we believe that sauce is not
just confined to any one area so you can
have successful SAS companies I mean the
Fortune 100 shows you enough that can
come from different verticals however
what is most important is whether or not
we know as the founders go out and
develop what they think is the value
proposition is it really a value
proposition or is it just an imagination
so this is where sometimes Founders need
to walk the streets talk to their
personas and Define in your who exactly
is the Persona that you are looking to
to Anchor in on and this Persona can
shift right because you shouldn't be so
quick to nail down that no this is it
you have to have that with or that
breath to experiment with the Persona
that you are looking at and from that
the product that you are talking about
which part of their workflow is it
fitting is it a nice to have little
feature or is it a must-have replacement
so I think sometimes these are just
basic hygiene that um that Founders
occasionally will get a little bit
carried away and their imagination get
the better of them and they have yet to
validate so this will come out
subsequently in churn in Revenue in
inability to raise funds
I'm just going to add to what you say
completely agreed I think a lot of the
the the news on the street is okay I'm
gonna hit one million ARR and go raise
my series a and there's always like what
is that number that I have to hit to
raise my series a but if you think of
what series a means of course like it's
it's just a number these days it depends
but you need to be at a point where okay
I think I have a view on what product
Market fit is right now and I think that
I know what I can do with that money
that I'm going to raise especially like
I I will double down on X or I'm gonna
go to this the other country
Etc so in that sense you really need to
be able to answer like not only the
revenue but also like what are the
drivers of your business like what what
does that mean that you have 500k or or
million or like do you have number of
users and are they growing and like what
does the user mean is are they engaged
it's like churn is is a good number to
have but sometimes you sell one year SAS
products and subscriptions it's like and
you don't have enough information on
like whether they're going to churn or
not but what are things that you're
going to look at like every week or
every day to see if something is working
or not
and people usually
like don't don't want to talk about
those things it's like okay I'm gonna
hit this number and I'm gonna go out but
I think like good size semesters are
more interested in the other types of
business driver metrics as well as the
the revenue
so would you expect Founders to mention
two or three personnel of their customer
in their deck to show that they
understand who they are or yeah so case
studies uh examples is actually one that
speaks to us right so just to give you
an example some of you may already have
heard of this company called stohub
um I I feel I figured it's easier to use
examples so during covet everybody was
dying so were they right so their their
Lifeline is if they are restaurants
they're small fmbs survive so these guys
will pay them the SARS fees to sustain
the use of their Point of Sales right
but if these guys dies off and close
business they are the next to go right
so what happens is for them they will
have to very quickly come up with the
Persona during covet these are the
company these are the fnbs that need
help they actually have got good food so
of course everybody must have good
products similarly FMB must have good
food they have good food but they do not
know how to reach their customers
they're clueless everybody who comes in
becomes just a dollar sign how much they
they check in and out that's all so now
how do I help my FNB guys to learn how
to take photos of the food the Glorious
Food that they have so they have to go
down to say this is the kind of food am
I going to do the chocolate which is
like maybe three bags or should I go for
the 30 bucks and because it's covered
you're talking about delivery how is
your packaging so they actually have to
go down that journey of working their
customers and in the end they realize
who are the ones that will likely be
motivated to do something about it are
those will be the personas that they
will focus on during that covert period
and of course now when we are forwarding
it to 2023 things are a little bit
different people are a lot more Savvy
yeah so yes they will have to give
examples so they know what they should
be looking at yeah do you expect even if
sometimes the CTO to be able to
articulate that personal well or you
expect that from the CEO from both
currently the ctOS are not well at least
those ctOS that we work with are not
quite able to articulate yet
is it because they are busy doing all
the coding so making sure the things
work or or is it because you have got
enough people facing the clients right
but in the larger scheme of things for
other companies uh for for the company
to know the pain points of their users
actually the leadership team should
occasionally help help the call centers
yeah I think it really depends like we
work with a company called Super Bass
you might have heard of them
they are devtool company their CTO is
the CMO
so yeah absolutely but also it's very
important if you're a small company like
everyone should be talking to the
customers I think and understanding what
drives the business maybe they might not
be as articulate but they they should
know
I like to jump in and maybe at a point
you know so I I think this um this this
conference is a misnomer
at last two years last three years
definitely SAS was on a hot streak and
then over time people develop Playbook
and they call it standard Playbook you
need to look at net dollar retention you
need to look at logo retention you know
check gbt can be a good investor because
as long as you fulfill a lot of this
criteria and Matrix you made it yeah
like a super A-Plus company
I I cannot resist but to Charming
because I I think that in
entrepreneurship U.S Founders are
looking to
resolve a key burning issue or problem
set right and that problem set could be
in Enterprise in workflow it could be in
many different Industries it has come
and mentioned
and and when you put that lens that is
the most important lens are you solving
the right problem set is it a good to
have is it a need to have and are there
people willing to pay for it and I I
want to caution that because as a global
investor we look at so-called SAS
companies in the US in China and in
Southeast Asia it can tell you that in
China when you look at so-called SAS
companies they are
you know same thing trying to address
similar issues but the way the market is
set up is that many of the customers are
budget based they are not Subspace
they're not going to pay you per month
per week per year they said this year I
have this budget right and if you
resolve this issue we'll give you the
annual budget uh you can space it out
into 12 months and make your numbers
work but the reality still comes down to
can you solve that issue and number two
if they're budget based you price based
on budget base the best company one of
our investment WPS which is like the
kingsoft equivalent or the Microsoft
Office equivalent of the western world
is the number one player in China they
are budget based right of course you
know one could say their sauce they are
trading at 20 billion market cap
yeah and so so and then in Southeast
Asia put in this context right so if as
entrepreneurs you're trying to fit your
business model to what you think is a
template you're going to be wrong so I I
still want to come back to fundamentals
right if you are if you're resolving the
right issue and if it's a need to have
then how much are people willing to pay
for it and has early uh and sometimes
you are so early in the industry people
don't know how to price it but if it's
great you you experiment if they're
going to give you part of your budget
you take it and then you figure it out
so I I still want to caution us
especially in this current climate there
is no right template if you are one
million ARR today it's PS of five that's
your valuation are you going to accept
that two years ago maybe 50 you know you
get 50 million for Series 8. today it's
not going to happen so again I I think
that it's very tough time to be in in
entrepreneurship to be doing your
startup but right now it's really
soul-searching are you really addressing
the right issue and then understanding
the business understanding the clients
and then saying in this region who's
going to pay I mean for us we call up
the customer
I called him up and said is this what
you're going to pay is this a one-off is
this a Sandbox is this recurring how
much budget this 10 of your I.T budget
one percent okay you know
so so again I think sometimes a lot of
the perceived template May no longer be
relevant in this current world so I I I
think you know I am tempted to throw in
this as a cautionary note I will add on
I mean your questions thanks a lot for
preparing a lot of questions but I think
there's enough content here so likewise
um so people are getting a bit worried
right so now people are saying that okay
why don't you give me for free the idea
is so that I can as a sales company I
can sustain but honestly this is the the
the the the the way to go into a
disaster mode so again like what Jenny
had said if they only have a certain
budget take it and just run with it and
you may you manage your expenses on that
side
um and if you are currently giving for
free the way to validate whether you are
nice to have a need to have a definite
must-have is to start charging right and
as you start charging you will you will
realize that these people who are paying
they want to get an extra mile for the
bug that they pay maybe that could help
you to build your next product the next
feature and therefore you can now Circle
back to them and say hey now instead of
one dollar it's 120 or whatever right so
so I feel that as far as entrepreneurs
we must be courageous enough to know how
to price our products so that we know we
are really worth it
okay actually this is really a good very
good topic and I think it touches on
what Jenny said like there is no
one-size-fits-all I I also have the
opposite example of like okay I'm a SAS
company I have a wonderful product I've
already figured out who my you know like
the Persona is going to be and I'm going
to charge them 10K and it's perfect here
is the calculation it's going to lead me
to a plus series and all that and then
all of a sudden life has changed a lot
of the SAS companies are selling into
tech companies now one of the budgets
are cuts a lot of the people who are
buying these products are are let go and
like a lot of the priorities have
changed in the last 12 to 24 months so
maybe if you're if your plan was that
but your cost is much smaller and you
believe that you have a great product
and your whole team is ready to build on
and you build a great team
give the product out maybe you reduce
the the the the the price and you get it
in front of people and they start using
it and you evolve from that instead of
just sticking to your plans and guns and
and that price point that you you set
and waiting for the market to change
you you mentioned also the funding needs
over key Milestones so what what do you
mean what does it mean for funders and
what they need to be careful of
yeah so again I always feel that um if
you are in your startup because it's
cool it's not so cool today okay so but
if again you have a burning need to
resolve and you really want to change
the world in certain ways and and you
have the persistent to do it then do a
full pickup plan right so do not do not
just orientate your business by series a
series B series C my advice is that you
should think through for me to get to my
end point my end point is to fire rocket
into space for example then go into it
what how much does it take for stage one
to get to building the rocket stage two
testing the rocket stage three how do I
commercialize right what is this rocket
going to bring what kind of satellite
blah blah blah and then you have the
whole full breakout plan and you said
for me to really reach my vision it's
going to take me 100 million
and then looked back and said who's
going to give you 100 million which are
the investors who's going to be there A
B C D and B that as you test through
those milestones and be able to get
there right if you are only funding so
understanding the perspective is correct
breaking down into Milestones become
very important and as you talk to the
investors
articulating this plan becomes important
I think sometimes we do see Founders
asking me can I come to you when I hit
you know one million or is it 500k of
users we don't go that way we are
looking for the end point how big of an
outcome are you trying to create how
much effort resource is it going to take
and the team setup is going to take to
get you there right and then we look at
you and say can you do it can you raise
100 million if you are a Founder who can
only do 10 this business is not for you
so I I would also say you know before
you go out and fight the battle plan
strategize if it's going to take 20
years to get fire the rocket okay let's
see if there's something else to do so
so so that's why I mean I think plan
first and then after that look for the
right investor and when you talk to them
be able to show them that this is what
this funding plan is going to get you to
but don't expect that in stage one I'm
gonna go to space right like and so I
think when investors understand this
good investors investors that have um
very sustainable long-term funds we do
what we call Reserve planning today it's
very very important I mean GPS like
ourselves we actually reserve a lot for
our portfolio in our early stage fund we
do one-to-one right so let's say our
fund is 500 million we may we will only
plan to invest 250 half and and reserve
the other half you know four
subsequent support of the portfolio
company because we believe that if this
is a great entrepreneur great Direction
I need to plan to see them to the end
right
um versus we spread it out use up 80 and
when the company comes back to us
there's no more cash and then you cannot
get to the endpoint so good investors
will plan for it but if they are not
ready then this is not the right fit
either
which is also for the founders to know
your investors and get a sense about
what kind of final outcome they're
expecting from your company are they
fine if you have 100 million exit are
they expecting you to be a one of five
billion exits but also at the same time
how much Capital they are they looking
to allocate per companies there's a few
funds not that many will only do first
check and never follow on but you're
better to be aware of that yeah
I would say this is a brand new category
I'm not prepared to put a lot of money
but I like you you know maybe we'll do a
seat check one million or 500k but
there's no guarantee there's a second
check and we will be upfront and I
because I want to see them where this is
going to go uh and if and this is for
brand new areas right so in in that
situation if you then go down and
execute on it then obviously it goes
into what we call Mainstream deal and
that's where the reserve would be there
as well so it's important for the
founders to know if it's 1 million out
of a pocket of 250 million and they are
not maybe doing 250 deals you know you
have been getting a check that is way
lower than usual check so they may be
paying to learn so you're not in the
same category that a core deal or deal
that I've been going to put way more
than usual so it's back to do your own
due diligence on VCS and you may still
take the 1 million because this investor
can bring you a different kind of
insights that other investors cannot but
you you then have to have it in your
expectation that the bout of the check
may have to come from other investors
but if you do prove yourself obviously
the investor says deep pocket to do this
so on the customers I think Carmen you
were mentioning or some terms like pay
master or no stars what do you mean by
those terms and why are they so
important for funders to to know them
yeah so so one of the things is that as
companies have got this Grand plans they
must know in the company in their
clients who exactly are they talking to
are you always talking to the CEO is
this really something that the CEO is
bothered about or is it somebody else
within the department or somebody else
in the corporation Asian who has the
budget so case in point right so another
company that we have petsnap most of you
probably will also know they started a
sauce before sauce became sexy I think
at that time they're like just trying to
sell into universities idea behind it is
is actually in a very narrow space
called patent but who knows intellectual
property will become something that
becomes today called Innovation right so
at that time when they were going around
they were selling to the to the
universities uh because universities has
a way to grade themselves to say oh
which university is more is better
ranked by the number of patents that
they found doesn't matter whether they
are better or not right so they said
they were trying to sell into the
universities but you know how University
budget works so it's not exciting right
that number is not exciting but soon
enough you realize that hey actually for
universities they also work with
corporates corporates are also trying to
work with universities Corpus also have
a certain budget in the IP Department
intellectual property department and you
have got IP
lawyers who are evaluating deals okay
fine let's go there and now they have
gone beyond IP they are now moving into
the r d guess what they are identifying
who actually is the pay bus and it does
change how is it possible that they
change because as they went uh work with
the university they realize universities
has other needs okay we go into the IP
Department IP department has certain
needs so they started to build out their
product repertoire but this is only
because they've got the base of
recurring Revenue small as it may be
budget control as it may be is still
sustaining keeping the lights on so
they're able to set aside some money for
experimentation and they went back to
their users to say is this something you
like oh no not really and along the way
they became so good they were identified
by big players to say hey I want to work
with you so that opens up yet another
Avenue another door for them but for
each of this they realize that the
paymaster is different now they have got
50 of their revenue coming from China
and to Jenny's Point China's plan well
totally different from everything
outside China China has budget China's
use case is different everything that we
we spoke about just now about University
does not apply to China at least in the
initial days so they are able to
identify who are the pay masters as they
go along and so now their pay masters is
not just confined to only one type one
persona but multiple types so I think
this is where it is important you need
to know who you are speaking to and
whether that party has got budget and
how much budget is that if it is a
budget for a one-year project go get it
if it's a budget where it's possible to
expand because it helps them to achieve
their goals that's a different story
then yeah more valuable so we have the
customers in China that works more into
budget in the US that are comfortable
paying subscription but here we have a
lot of people from India or from
Southeast Asia so how about those type
of customers so our India companies uh
there are SARS they are generally U.S
focused so they will work on the U.S
model of a subscription base and all the
so what southeast Asia we have got SAS
companies the southeast Asia clients are
very sensitive hypersensitive to how
much they're charging them right so
therefore you will have to be creative
on how else can you get additional
recurring Revenue in other means so
maybe your SARS per se has to be modest
but what else can you build what other
hooks can you build into the process of
the company's workflow so that you can
now be it's too painful to extract you
out right but yet at the same time they
know they need whatever that you're
providing so it could be more of like
I'll give you 10 features for free but
the others are more valuable so you will
have to pay so it's this is where
creativity comes in but that's only
because you know what What Hurts the
clients if they do not have it but I I
you need to be careful about creativity
I think like because
in this region like we all know that
there are a lot of
service based things that that we do
that are not necessarily categorized as
SAS it's not SAS and there might be
commitments there might be especially a
series a where like the founder is still
like maybe they're great and people want
to work with them so they're like okay
come do this and come build this
um both in your story and then
realistically when you look at what is
my product and what is repeatable and
what is my margin and how will it grow
without me having my pre-sales for sales
all like Solutions engineering is is it
first conversation you need to have with
yourself because it can be a good
business as well but is it a SAS
business really is is the question and
if you try to build your narrative and
come to it SAS VC I think at least in
your second meeting you're going to go
deep into the what is repeatable what is
service who are you selling to is this
really sass
so interestingly India is a bigger
Market in Southeast Asia likely to be
way less fragmented but you still
believe SAS companies can succeed by
selling
in Southeast Asia or should they go to
the U.S or should they do something else
or do you look at that because so far we
have seen a few exit here like the wave
sales opium
um Etc but I haven't been this really
big exit we don't have yet like very
large SAS Southeast Asian based
companies that are quite active here in
the region so how do you look at that is
it like a no-go if they too focused on
southeast Asia or do you look at that
market
southeast Asia is is not sexy yet but
that's also because we have got a group
of companies like I said earlier on that
are less willing to pay but there is
indeed need for our southeast Asia
companies to have certain levels of
productivity via the SAS companies right
the tools that is available
um I feel strongly that they need to be
leaders in the domain that they are in
and it could well be an m a game so
there exists that we have seen
previously where zopin was exited to
zenders I think it caused certain
excitement for a while but not enough
right then then for the founders let's
say when the companies are exited where
do they go next are they coming back
into the SARS game knowing that it's so
hard and being full so are they coming
back or are they going to say I'm
checking out I will be an angel investor
I think that's that's something that
Founders ought to also help to lift the
ecosystem up I believe that once if we
have got a very strong exit by IPO or or
Mna and if people have indeed managed to
sell the company away higher price tag
we will start seeing excitement in this
vertical so we need a Zoe of fresh works
we do we do so
absolutely start a SAS business out of
Southeast Asia
but and and you can sell to Great
companies here they can be your first
users it's great like founder to find
their sales
but close the series again depends you
need to keep your eyes out in a more
developed Market if you want a more
proper like we see type of uh tech
company growth but there are certain
Pockets that are getting quite
interesting I think in in countries like
Indonesia but they are very like HR tax
focused where like a regulation changed
and like everyone needs to move to a
certain place and much faster and there
is no way around it so there needs to be
some kind of a catalyst otherwise it is
people are still not willing to pay big
amounts for for staff software what
you're also saying is that since the
market is not that large you are better
to tackle something like HR that every
company needs like xero or something
that everyone can use and don't go maybe
too Niche because otherwise you're
already a fraction of a small market so
it's very unlikely you can correct and I
think their needs to be a an advantage
of being local like whether you know the
tax codes or what's going to happen to
the regulations and then you can keep on
building on that mode
so I like to give another example so I
think when we talk about stars we are
talking about the ultimate
um perfect model in the U.S market it's
great you can sell tools apis and call
it SAS right because it's recurring but
it's conditional a few criteria I think
one the ability of the Enterprise or the
users to pay right so GDP per capital
does matter whether it's at the company
level or at the individual level the
number two you are also assuming that
Enterprise when they use your tools as a
group of developers who knows how to use
it
for whatever that they are using that
tool for right so if you're using it for
data observability they probably have
data scientists they use your tools and
then they can do it but it's very
important when we look at markets like
China southeast Asia India while from a
pure number perspective we have more
developer rest of the world versus the
US the quality of developers in our
Asian market many of you hires right you
know that quality of developer that
Innovation maybe you find some coders
people who can code Vietnam is probably
better than Indonesia but the ability to
take an off-the-shelf tool and then make
it useful within company is solely
lacking so again you know if you can get
to the Ultimate model Perfect Right
light model just do two standardize and
everybody pays you as on a daily basis
but the example I want to give is this I
think education is one sector that
everybody knows is huge right
particularly in Asia where parents are
all targeted and Mom you know the the
system is about competing on education
the kind of companies we see and
startups we see in the US they tend to
be SARS you know we have startups that
provide SAS Tools for Schools to better
manage their grading for schools to
better the kindergarten change to better
manage payment and the kind of companies
we see that tend to be very simple app
downloads or tools in China in Southeast
Asia the market is huge but if you sell
the tools to the schools they don't know
how to use it you sell the tools to
teachers and you said let me help you to
you know manage your students they don't
know how to use it what do they want
they actually want you to use your tool
and your technology and operate a
service and if you operate and service
you actually end up taking the bout of
that value Chain versus just trying so
enablement doesn't work globally because
the stage of development of the
development Community is very different
so it doesn't matter like like do you do
you if you are truly trying to change
the world in this case
bring education to everybody it's not
about just giving them tools it's about
saying I want the endpoint which is to
educate and therefore you may have to do
the Dirty Work the tough work the
operations work but as part of that you
are going to probably get 80 of the
value and then three years down the road
five years down the road enough people
enough teachers enough students use your
platform they may be unable to then
leverage the platform and in that case
can you now take the technology that was
your back end that you don't sell
because it's your core Advantage maybe
you open it up and then enable the long
tail and then you can start to have a
sauce so so so you know it's it's really
customizing your value proposition to
the market and not just waiting for
Market to be SAS ready because Jose
sauce is Holy Grail
like right now sauce is not sexy
okay so so again but what is sexy is
Ultimate value creation to the end user
and it could be Services I think the
world is going back to hard work there
is no low hanging fruit if it means you
have to operate if it means you have to
find teachers if it means you have to
like deliver and do some customization
you may have to do that and in my trip
in in develop emerging markets that may
be the right way to to get yourself in
first and then you do a conversion uh to
the Ultimate model over time
yeah so that's why just now when Peruzzi
was saying about um uh Beware that we
may become a Services Company it's true
so most of our SAS companies who have
certain elements of services Revenue we
do not want to see that to be too big
but we also realize that this is one
where number one it helps to put money
on the table because service you pay by
installments or pay by Milestones it
puts money on the table and number two
you are able to now know the problem of
the company more intricately so we do
not deny that but eventually we would
like to see that they are this customer
doesn't turn because I do all the hard
work for you right right up front
I I didn't want to be too negative like
maybe you become a payments company so
like it's just to find other ways of
creating value and capturing that value
yeah
so so period you also discussed about
the also discussed about sales
efficiency Matrix and you were saying
that that may come too early sometime on
on Startup using it what do you mean by
that and when is the right time to use
it
um
found the product Market fit and if you
know that okay I put the fur like I did
my own sales like I don't know founder
let's say let's say you're doing SAS it
worked I put it two other people it
seems to be working like there is of
course you won't get the predictability
yet but you can you can sustain a few
other people then you can start looking
at okay like how would the future look
like like it might not be happening
right now but what would be the sales
efficiency of of this product but
sometimes we see some companies that are
way earlier in their Journey that are
just like slapping a sales efficiency
metric where like you know like
depending on a great sales person or a
relationship Etc like that number might
look great or really bad but it might
not be it might not mean much
because it's just like you don't have
the right metrics to show that this
product works for this user or that
market
but it's I think what we're hearing
quite a lot today is about there's a lot
of framework there's a lot of things to
follow but you need to deeply understand
them to know when you should and when
you shouldn't you know or when you
should twist it and why it makes sense
so the challenge is you deeply need to
understand before you can go around it
so that that is not easy for the
founders before maybe we take some
questions from the audience we're going
to wrap up on the on the challenge you
may see on the closing process and
negotiation and terms on the founders on
the round so maybe we can start with
Genie what are your thoughts on that
yeah you know this is one topic people
don't talk a lot right you get your term
you're happy you think it's done
and then the lawyers come in
um and then the terms comes in and you
start a series a right so you're like
what's liquidation preference what's
redemption or in China we have
Redemption uh Asia as well and then you
start to go down this whole legal jargon
and then you freaked out
so
and then it takes six months to close
you seriously it's trying to raise three
million it shouldn't take you six months
it's six months of lost opportunity in
the market six months from the term
sheet to the money in the bank yes so so
I I think this is one I I would like to
to caution because if you are a series a
you're trying to find product Market fit
you're trying to build your management
team you're trying to explore
monetization
um and I can tell you from an investor
point of view a term sheet sign is not a
deal done we continue to do our due
diligence up to the last day and the
entire negotiation process with a
Founder on the terms it's a it's a it's
a like the most revealing of all due
diligence because it shows us what is
the CEO they know about you see going
down the long tail trying to
nitty-gritty you know negotiate reps and
warranties I can tell you if the company
does not do well there's no more cash do
I worry about liquidation zero right now
why does the investor need it because we
are funds official funds institutional
funds we have a fiduciary duty to our uh
investors our limited partners some are
public Pension funds so we need to have
check and balance we need to have a
worst case situation that's why legal
comes in right legal it's all about
protecting the worst worst downside but
in early Venture the downside is zero
right and so I think as Founders you
have to take this into perspective I'm
not saying don't negotiate your terms
I'm saying understand your terms focus
on the big picture there may be 20 terms
you're anal about but say which are the
two showstopper maybe it's valuation
maybe it's ESOP maybe it's you know exit
liquidation maybe it's broad seeds maybe
it's voting rice right but but focus on
the big picture get those points and
then get your money in because when the
money is in you can start to do what you
need to do and I we have been known to
step away from a deal because through
that negotiation process the only the
lawyers are making money because the
cloud comes is going the turns keep
going and I'm like three million deal
they're gonna spend half a million on
legal this is not a CEO who knows how to
use this resource right he's he's trying
to guess and give me all kinds of
scenario of a worst case investors
trying to invest in a competing company
you are not big enough to worry about
competitors you should only be worried
about your own getting to Market and
having your customers right and so worry
less about is this investor going to
invest in someone else because if you
are not good enough they will invest in
someone else even if there's a legal
restriction right so so I know it may
sound weird but I'm just trying to put
it to perspective is that understand the
terms and if they are really show
stopper from day one it's in the term
sheet you should discuss that and not
have a prolonged process right but it
really allows me to tell is this CEO or
the founder strategic or is he so much
in the weeds that comes tough time that
company is going to die so so we
mentioned a few times today that
customers in the region are not willing
to pay two merchants but also the
feeling Founders are not willing to pay
too much on good lawyers is it something
also you see at the series there's no
good lawyers
yeah only great the only AI you can
replace lawyers so so
sorry I love my lawyers but but I I
think that in the world of startups
there's only six set of terms that you
have to worry about and so there is no
difference between great great lawyers
the lawyer who's going to get you that
last 100 points and you pay half a
million isn't going to be there when you
shut down the company that you cannot
afford to pay right so so I I think the
best lawyers are the ones that will tell
you the commercial terms and said this
class it may sound honorous the chance
of happening is one percent
what happened one percent are you gonna
fight right I think that's the that's
the key pay pay reasonable rates a lot
of investors like ourselves we have law
firms that we work with and so we
actually have about discount which we
can offer you know to our entrepreneurs
and so just use the template right yeah
you can you know work with a lawyer but
use the main template and you can get a
deal series a less than 50k is the norm
if you're paying more than that
something's wrong
maybe 20 20K is what we see if there's
no restructuring right so so again these
are the range you know talk to your
fellow Founders figure out what's the
right range get their review uh and then
you you get your kind of service that
you demand but you don't have to overpay
okay so let's take one at least question
from the audience please keep it super
short on your question no comment
question anyone with a question you can
go to the mic
do you have any question
no question one question
thanks guys that was a very interesting
set of perspectives
uh so uh I think question to Jenny
I think you shared that a lot of times
you know the uh you talked about the
fact that you know the survey the
business runs
right and then based on that you know
you'll have to look at product versus
service you'll get what really is the
way of extracting value right and that
is what really matters and I think
that's great conversation at the partner
level right but when founders and I'm
going to speak as a founder
as Founders when we talk to the analysts
it's a very different world
right because you're going to get into
an analysis paralysis mode and there's a
lot of arm wrestling in terms of is this
metric high or lower does it meet the
benchmarks right and I think a lot of
we've seen that with a lot of analysts
what happens is that you know what these
are your this is your data room this is
these are your metrics right but our
template says that this is how a great
company should look like
right it doesn't match it and then the
conversation on value for the customer
is not there at all right so uh what is
your advice to Founders to get around
this I actually had a point on that
right I actually had a point um mistakes
which is the approach
you don't approach the analyst first
sure right I think if you find the right
investor you should try and get a
meeting with the partner right or
experienced person in the room so that
it's not about cooking cutter cookie
cutter trying to fit the mole but it's
about having that long-range discussion
about what you're trying to do so in
today's market deals are not done after
one meeting
maybe last two years today's market it
will be more iteration even at the early
stage and therefore requesting for that
meeting becomes really important you
have to do your due diligence not all
VCS have money
not all of them are deploying right so
don't back up the wrong tree either so
do your homework and then as you talk to
the partners you say okay if I today
it's not going to be crazy valuation
right now if you do have to dilute your
business a bit more than usual make sure
that it's done with the right person in
mind right so I don't know how you can
convince the analyst I would say figure
out how you find the decision maker I
don't mind I have one more counter
question there because I believe that I
fully agree with what you're saying
right but I also have seen that a lot of
Partners do rely very heavily on the
analyst team to give you know their
feedback right so I I don't know if we
can say Hey you know I don't want to
talk to analysts I only want to talk you
may have to talk to the analyst first
but make sure that you share your vision
your long-term path actually I I would I
don't want to Discount analysts right
many of the investment team they're very
smart they have met if they have met I'm
at 3000 Founders they have a way of
sussing out is this the right guy right
don't get stuck into the numbers on day
one know your numbers but be able to
impress with what you're trying to do
and then you request for the meeting
right so so I that's that's no way
around it right you've got to trust that
the person who you talk to is qualified
enough to discuss with you but don't
don't get down into like argument on
this number and that number like try and
come up on the Strategic and be able to
Spa sometimes it takes more than one
meeting we do track our Founders over
time like I remember my Founders like
from five years ago I've tried companies
for five years and the entire team knows
me from a to e now when he came here at
Series E
but it was easy because they know I know
exactly what they've done their
management team changes but the early
days they were not ready and they know
it right so so sometimes it's you may
not get them in series a but come series
B they would have seen how you have
progressed and that earlier conversation
if it's done right would have built the
foundation for those subsequent
conversations
thank you one thing to add is like I
think Jenny is right but you guys
probably know that like like many other
companies VCS also have their own crms
so if you meet an analyst or another
partner and if the answer is no
and if you go to another partner and
don't give that context the other
partner the chances of that other
partner knowing that you've also met and
like seeing the nose is very very high
and you know in this business trust
comes first so please please you know be
transparent and it happens it happens a
lot sometimes you say no and make a big
mistake too it doesn't have to be an
analyst I think it's very critical I'll
just wrap up I think times is way up
I'll wrap up so at the same time we your
business is not a one-off so while the
metrics doesn't work right now that
doesn't mean that six months down the
road you are still below Benchmark
whatever Benchmark may be I think end of
the day we are looking at companies that
can have a sustained better yet higher
growth right so if you're able to
demonstrate that without burning too
much in today's context then I think you
get to live another day and play another
day right and then we are always looking
out for that that company that can give
us the home run right so so and we will
continue to look and we'll come back to
companies like what Jenny said maybe not
five years maybe half a year out will
touch base right yeah I've been in
business for 23 years so so the duration
can be a little longer but be carefully
which partner you talk to because if
it's the wrong one sometimes there's not
much communication in some funds so you
may just die there so look across the
page look at which deals which one are
being involved do you see the one giving
quotes in the press for which deal and
get a sense about the one is more likely
to understand your industry and do the
deal
some of the folks that we are talking to
they know they are they are pre-a they
are seed stage they know we don't do a
seed stage and they are saying can we
start letting you know what we are doing
we will never say no right because we
are also tracking the founder we want to
see how the founder react responds
during times that are hard right so so
we are tracking and it's always open for
conversations
thanks guys awesome thanks very much
everyone uh please join me to thanks our
great panelists
[Music]